+++
title = "Male and Female"

[extra.prev]
title = "Creation"
url = "/creation"

[extra.next]
title = "A Subtle Serpent"
url = "/a-subtle-serpent"
+++

# Male and Female

So, Adam has been created in the Garden of Eden, and God has given him the
responsibility to care for the garden. Great! But as the work continues, with
Adam naming each of the animals, Adam realizes that he's still missing
something. "As for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him" (Moses 3:20).
So God took a rib from Adam and created one, the woman later named Eve.

Immediately upon seeing her, Adam recognizes her importance, that she was "bone
of my bones, and flesh of my flesh" (Moses 3:23). He recognized, as the editor
of Moses later commented, that "therefore shall a man leave his father and his
mother, and shall cleave unto his wife; and they shall be *one flesh*" (Moses
3:24). Although God had created a distinct being that was different from Adam,
Adam realized that the ultimate goal was to be unified with her. This was the
beginning of social creation.

However, there were some things that weren't quite right yet. "And they were
both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed" (Moses 3:25). They
didn't yet have a sense of right and wrong. There was no knowledge of the laws
that are used to create a society. For that, there was need for one more thing:
they needed the knowledge of good and evil. But God had commanded them not to
partake of the fruit that would give them that knowledge. So was that it? Had
God failed in his efforts to have a social creation?

Far from it. God's plan was not yet fully in action. But there was one that
seeked to overthrow the plan, one who had wanted to do so from the beginning.
And it was his turn to make a move.
